[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Mission sequence start.
We have liftoff.
>> Traveling alongside the
secret space program has been
the rapid development
of computers.
The technological
rise has been dizzying
and sometimes confusing
for large groups of people.
As computers have
become more powerful,
they've also created a
new form of intelligence
which is now called AI or
artificial intelligence.
Many think that having machines
that can do our thinking for us
will be a great
event for humanity.
Others fear that
the AI will realize
that it does not need us.
Ray Kurzweil in his book
"The Singularity is Near"
posits that AI will become so
advanced that it will create
what he calls a singularity.
>> Hello.
I'm a third generation
AX400 android.
>> The technological singularity
is a hypothetical date at which
the machines that we're building
become smarter than we are
and begin to accelerate and take
on their own evolution going
into an exponential rate.
Scientists used to
think we were decades
away from achieving
the singularity.
However, recent advancements
in artificial intelligence
that they thought
were decades away
have actually come to
fruition suggesting
that the singularity could in
fact be closer than we believe.
>> Do you want to
give me a name?
>> Artificial intelligence is
the science of making machines
intelligent, especially
computer programs.
There are three levels of
artificial intelligence
beginning with artificial
narrow intelligence.
This is sometimes
called weak AI.
This is what we're experiencing
in the public right now.
Virtually everything
you do online
is utilizing artificial
narrow intelligence.
When Pandora offers a
musical selection for you,
when Amazon makes a
selection for you,
this is artificial intelligence
at its most basic level.
[DEVICE BEEPS]
>> It's not looking too good
in New York City tomorrow.
>> Siri and Alexa are very
good examples of artificial
intelligence level one
or narrow intelligence.
[DEVICE BEEPS]
>> I'm Siri, your
virtual assistant.
>> Siri, in
particular, by the way,
is an outgrowth of the Defense
Advanced Research Projects
Agency which is one of the
main drivers of artificial
intelligence research.
But what's happening is that
this narrow intelligence
is beginning to broaden
into artificial general
intelligence.
This is human-level intelligence
across the board where
machines think like humans.
We're not quite there
yet, but every advancement
in narrow intelligence
is leading
to the general intelligence.
The third level
is the scary one.
This is artificial
super intelligence.
This is where machines
are either a little bit
smarter than humans or perhaps
billions of times smarter
than humans.
The difference is that
they have their own agenda.
And this is where people start
using words like immortality
and extinction level events
with artificial intelligence
because we don't know what
will happen once machines have
this level of intelligence.
Leading technologists like
Bill Gates, Steve Wozniak,
Elon Musk have come out publicly
and made dramatic warnings
against artificial intelligence.
>> As we create super
intelligence that it will
necessarily always have the
same goals in mind that we do.
>> If AI is much smarter
than a person, what do we do?
>> It's a little bit
hypocritical to me,
because at the same time
they're warning against it,
they're investing millions
upon millions of dollars
in artificial intelligence.
Their companies are now based
on artificial intelligence,
and they hope to make billions
if not trillions of dollars
off this technology.
So they're a little bit late in
warning us about it because now
our civilization is basically
dependent on artificial narrow
intelligence.
And this is the problem.
Individual consumers
who use a smartphone
have no idea of the potential
power of that technology they
hold in the palm of their hand.
This technology is
artificial intelligence
at its best at its current
level, on the consumer level.
And we're saying yes to
artificial intelligence
every time we use
our smartphone,
every time we go online.
But the thing is that these
large companies, the big brand
names who are pushing
artificial intelligence,
never explain to us what
they intend to do with it
and how they are aiming
it at the human body
and ultimately how this
technology will literally
take over decision-making
for individuals and humanity
collectively.
There's something
wrong with that.
>> Lately, quite a few
famous people in the sciences
and in high-tech companies have
been warning us that artificial
intelligence could take over
humanity and may even pose
a threat to the human race.
>> I admire the work of Bill
Gates, Elon Musk, Wozniak,
and others.
Stephen Hawking is
another one who's
made a very
declarative statement
about artificial
intelligence possibly leading
to the extinction of humanity.
We have to take these
statements at face value.
But at the same time,
these individuals
have to step up and become
more responsible in explaining
to the public exactly
what they've done
and what they've unleashed
and what we are actually
buying into every time we
utilize this technology.
[DEVICE BEEPS]
OK.
3 minutes and counting.
>> Elon Musk has
his own ax to grind.
It's interesting.
He has invested multiplied
millions in his own AI company,
then he goes out and said that
AI is a greater danger to us
than North Korea.
[ROCKET BOOSTERS THRUSTING]
Come on, Eli.
You know, give me a break.
Well, this is the same guy
that wants to colonize Mars so,
you know, you got to
give me a break, I guess,
philosophically.
But AI is here and
it's here to stay.
And there's the fact of AI,
there's the reality of it,
and then there's the
myth that surrounds it.
What they think they're
going to do with AI
is a myth, in my opinion.
Most of the things they say
they're going to achieve,
they never will.
The problem is they think
they will and they can't.
And these are the richest
people in the world, right?
So the fact that they believe
something that I think
is a lie, and they're
acting upon it,
is going to affect
every one of us.
>> No one knows for sure the
consequences of achieving
the singularity because by
definition it's unknowable.
It's a term that
expresses a condition
beyond our comprehension,
beyond our understanding of what
could possibly happen.
So it's a Pandora's box that
we're getting ready to open,
and it could have a
big surprise for us.
The singularity brings
with it the good, the bad,
and the ugly.
It can bring dramatic
changes and problem
solving for humanity in terms of
economics, physics, chemistry,
medicine.
We're talking about miraculous
new discoveries and solutions
to very human problems.
The bad is that it's
going to cost us millions
upon millions of jobs.
As much as 90% of
the human population
will be unemployed when the
singularity takes place.
That leads to the ugly.
The potential for anarchy
is absolutely astounding,
and nobody seems to be
talking about that potential
of unleashing the power of
artificial intelligence.
Take a look around your
life, your daily life.
You go into a coffee shop,
you go to the dry cleaner,
you see a policeman,
you see a taxi driver.
Any and all of
those jobs will be
eliminated from a
human perspective
and replaced by artificially
intelligent robots
within 10 years.
When we're talking about the
singularity eliminating jobs,
we're talking about
almost any job that
involves any kind of routine.
Doctors, lawyers, eliminated,
replaced by AI robots.
Menial jobs, however,
street sweepers
and construction workers,
this is the type of job
that is very difficult
for machines to do.
Anything that we can
do with our human hands
and involves
movement in our feet
are jobs that will
ultimately be secure.
Thinking jobs,
however, are going
to be eliminated
on a human basis
and will be replaced
by machines.
One of the advantages of
achieving the singularity
is that it unites
human intelligence
with machine intelligence
to solve human problems.
Problems with the environment,
problems with biology,
problems in medicine.
If we can solve
these problems, we're
talking about miraculous
cures for diseases.
We're talking about
a new way of living.
But the cost is unparalleled
and beyond our comprehension.
Artificial intelligence can
have a revolutionary impact
on our politics, on
medicine, on our environment,
on biology, because
of its ability
to access massive amounts of
data and perceive patterns
that would take perhaps a human
years to be able to perceive.
So one of the
advantages is being
able to apply it in medical
diagnosis, for example.
It can more accurately
diagnose some diseases
than a medical doctor can,
or certainly a med student.
So that's one area where it
could have a dramatic impact.
So where does that
leave the human element?
Well, if a doctor is
replaced by a robot,
then maybe a doctor
needs to become a healer
because a machine
doesn't have empathy
and a machine can't
offer sympathy
to a human being on a
human-to-human level.
So what this will open up
is perhaps a blossoming
of our true humanity.
Many of us in menial
jobs, doctors, lawyers,
not to be insulting, but
they are fairly robotic.
They make a diagnosis and here's
the prescription for the cure.
A machine can do that
better than a human.
An artificially intelligent
computer, we now know,
is a better doctor
than a human doctor.
But a human who is a
doctor and a healer
offers something that a machine
will never be able to offer.
>> I think artificial
intelligence,
the whole AI paradigm,
is a very scary prospect.
As you know, with
Moore's Law it states
that processing technology
will advance every 18 months.
It will double in
speed our ability
to process using
integrated circuitry.
We are now at a point where
both AMD and Intel Corporation
are releasing 9-core processors
with incredible processing
speed, unthinkable back in the
1960s, '70s, and '80s, even
in the '90s.
Now we're on the verge of doing
something that is unheard of.
We are able to construct
arrays of servers
and put together programs that
are filled with algorithms
and subroutines
and functions that
allow these servers to
create a consciousness
and become sentient and
make their own decisions.
That's what Leonid was about.
Leonid was a defensive system,
an autonomous defensive system,
with some human
components attached to it,
and it's meant to detect
inbound ET traffic.
This was an autonomous
AI-driven system
that could make
its own decisions
if the human component
was not available.
That's what scares the
hell out of everybody.
Now they're talking about making
AI for policing the populace,
AI to help advance
various academic sectors.
I just think, if
you see too much
of a proliferation of
artificial intelligence,
you are going to see elimination
of the human component which
will allow an AI
system to take over.
And it's not something that I,
as an engineer with a software
background, think I could
ever push as a step forward.
I see it as something
detrimental to humanity.
>> More and more, artificially
intelligent machines are making
decisions for and about humans.
And here's where the
harm can potentially
come in, because
artificial intelligence is
becoming a black box.
It's gone on to writing
its own algorithms
that humans do not understand.
We don't know how these
artificially intelligent
machines are coming
to the conclusions
that they're coming
to, and that puts us
in a very precarious position.
In fact, in the
European Union, there's
already legislation in place
to say that individuals
have the right to demand
that an artificially
intelligent computer explain
its solution or its conclusion
to a human.
So this is a very,
very dark aspect
of artificial
intelligence where we
have computers that we do
not any longer understand
how they work making
decisions for humans.
We have never created a machine
that we don't understand
how it works, but
yet that's what
we're doing with
artificial intelligence,
and now it's beginning
to accelerate.
And this is the danger
of the singularity, where
these machines take
on human intelligence
and vastly expand
on that intelligence
and supersede what
humans are able to do
and then potentially are
able to outwit humans.
>> It is when you consider
you have billionaires around
the globe funding
independent efforts,
both in academic settings
and in the private sector.
It's not going to stop.
>> One of the great fears for
experts is that AI will be
weaponized and then used to
create fantastic and deadly
weapons of an
unimaginable nature.
>> A little talked about aspect
of artificial intelligence is
the military's interest in deep
application of this technology.
And if the military
is using it, there's
a teenager somewhere in the
world that is also developing
it for their own personal use.
And if this is a
nefarious individual,
it's possible that
one single person
with this advanced artificial
intelligence technology
could bring down the
entire United States
military establishment.
Artificial intelligence is,
I call it cowboy technology
because these guys
are just running
wild with little public
oversight and very little
government oversight.
And part of the reason why is
because much of this technology
is coming from the
darkest aspects
of our military intelligence
sectors and technology
development.
DARPA is literally feeding
many of these companies
the technologies and the ideas.
Siri is a very good
example of that.
It was originally developed by
the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency.
[DEVICE BEEPS]
>> What are you?
>> I'm just a humble
virtual assistant.
>> And now it's a
consumer application.
Well, what other
military applications
are in development now at
these companies that will soon
become consumer applications,
and how intrusive
is that technology going
to be in our lives?
And how rapidly are
we literally turning
over control of
our civilisations
to machines we don't
know anything about?
I'm very concerned
about the militarization
of the human spirit
through Silicon Valley.
The reason I say this is because
a lot of the technology that
is being fed through
Silicon Valley
comes from the United
States military,
and it's about control.
It's about controlling
the population.
our human capabilities.
There seems to be a conspiracy,
if you want to call it that,
or a directed effort to suppress
the spiritual capabilities
of the human body.
For centuries,
the powers that be
have not wanted us to
access this deep reservoir
of capabilities that we have.
And through Silicon Valley
now that suppression
is becoming even greater.
If you have, for
example, a brain implant.
Let's say you buy into
the smart dust concept
and you allow them to sprinkle
these nanotechnology computers
into your brain.
They have the capability
of keeping you
at a very narrow
range of frequency
wherever they want you to be.
And if you start to wander
outside of that frequency,
they're going to have a
real problem with you,
and they're going
to try to bring you
right back into that prison
planet kind of modality.
And this is what I mean
by the militarization
of the human spirit,
because they have long
been trying to suppress our
abilities through genetically
modified food, other
modalities, just simply
the suppression of the ideas.
And now with this
technology, they're
able to ramp it up
to a higher level,
and we effectively are
putting ourselves inside
of a prison cell by
allowing this technology
into our bodies.
This is why I encourage
people that unless it's
a life or death
situation, don't allow
them to break the skin barrier.
Make sure that your
utilization of this technology
is temporary, not
implanted and permanent.
I characterize it that there's
a giant elephant in the room.
Half of it's pink,
half of it's gray.
Are we going to go
organic with our evolution
or are we going to
go technological?
Or maybe the pink and
gray can somehow merge.
But someone's got to lead the
conversation, and nobody is.
>> As artificial intelligence
and technology advances,
there are many who think that
the human race could be losing
its spiritual values.
>> What people don't realize
with AI is that we are
disabling ourselves, and
it's almost a new religion,
in a way, because the scientists
who are deep in the AI research
use words like faith.
We have faith that AI is
going to be good for us.
We hope that AI is going
to be able to explain to us
how it operates at its most
super intelligent level.
And we trust that AI is
going to be something
good for us in the end.
Well, this sounds like they're
talking about God to me.
Are we supposed to start praying
to these black boxes now?
You know, some people literally
treat their computer like it's
God, like it knows everything.
We have that kind
of relationship
with this technology,
and it is taking
on now a religious fervor.
What a lot of people
aren't aware of
is that while there's
a singularity going on,
where this technology is
taking on human intelligence,
at the same time there's also
a "skingularity," as I call it.
I coined this term to describe
the meshing of our flesh
with this artificially
intelligence technology,
where we will literally
become a single hive
mind at one with these
artificially intelligent
computers.
The skingularity
refers to this moment
when we start putting the
implants in our brains.
When we are a literally
creating a new layer of skin.
Every single organ
in our body can now
be duplicated artificially and
be controlled at the same time
by remote control, which
is the danger of it.
So we're coming into a time
here where we are fundamentally
redefining what it
means to be human.
Everybody talks in the new
age circles about, oh, we're
all one and we should
all act as a single race.
Well, the technologists
feel the same way about it,
but the way they want to
go about accomplishing that
is by putting an
implant in our brain
that dramatically
impacts our consciousness
and dramatically increases
our brain capacity.
Google's promise, it sort
of reminds me of the moment
when Satan took Jesus up to
the top of the tower and said,
all of this can be yours.
Even the New Testament of the
Bible says that flesh and blood
cannot inherit the
Kingdom of Heaven,
and this is what NASA
is bumping up against.
They're realizing that the
body cannot go into space.
So we have to change our form.
We have to become
somehow different.
And the choice is we
either become machines
or we do what the ancients did.
We transform our body into
what the Tibetans referred to
as the rainbow light
body, the ascension
body, the resurrection body.
Hidden within us is this deep
reservoir of spiritual power
that can transform
our body into a higher
level of spiritual evolution
and then beam itself
through the cosmos and then
reform itself into a flesh
and blood form if it chooses.
This is the capability
that the Tibetans describe
with their great perfection
or rainbow body teaching,
where the bodhisattvas
have the ability,
at will, to phase between
their earthly flesh form
and their celestial flesh form.
And in my opinion, the
ultimate answer for humanity
is to focus more on attaining
our celestial flesh, in terms
of our light body,
rather than following
the path of the singularity
and turning ourselves
into transhuman machines.
There's never been
a time in history
where individuals are choosing
to augment the human body as we
are now doing with technology.
With retinal implants,
cochlear implants,
all kinds of implants,
artificial organs,
we can literally pick and choose
how we want to change our looks
and how we want to change
our bodies for health
purposes or whatever reason.
And at the same time, there's
never been a time in history
where millions of
people are accessing
their organic yogic powers,
where they're digging deep.
We have millions of
people around the world,
simultaneously now,
practicing yoga.
All of this is going to
developing our highest
spiritual powers.
And perhaps there's a way
that these two perceived
or seemingly divergent
paths can converge.
Maybe there's a way that
artificial intelligence
and impacting our
flesh with technology
can somehow amplify
our spiritual powers.
I'm trying to get Silicon
Valley to get onto this path
and to utilize this
technology to develop
our spiritual powers rather
than our brain powers,
just simply because we can.
Their modus operandi
is operating
from that place where
many people operate,
the love of power.
We're developing this
technology because we can.
We're augmenting the
human body because we can.
It's not being directed
at an ultimate higher
purpose of accentuating the
potential spiritual powers
of the human body for
the power of love,
and this is the missing
conversation here.
They talk about artificially
intelligent computers
and how they're going
to be ruling over us.
But the answer is
that if we're going
to allow this to happen,
then somewhere along the way
we have to teach these
robot rulers to love us.
But here again the
problem is, how long
has humanity been trying to
learn to love one another?
Do you think in
the next five years
we can teach a robot, an
artificially intelligent robot,
to love?
I hope so.
I characterize our
situation with this battle,
if you will, these
parallel worlds
between the
technological AI and what
I call the other AI,
ascension intelligence.
You have millions of people
that are now practicing yoga,
developing their
spiritual capabilities.
And what they're
ultimately aiming for
is their own personal
ascension, which
has to do with becoming more
whole and more complete.
They use the word
perfect as well.
So we have individuals
that are trying
to become more whole
and complete and perfect
and ultimately to create a more
whole and complete and even
wholly human race.
Then on the other side you
have the gods of Silicon Valley
and Beijing and
elsewhere who are saying,
yeah, we're all about perfecting
the human race as well.
We think the human body
is far too fragile.
In fact, we think
God baked the cake
and we're going to
put the icing on it.
And the way we're going
to do that is we're
going to merge four
technologies-- bits, atoms,
neurons, and genes.
We're going to take our
computer technology or bits,
we're going to take
atoms or nanotechnology,
we're going to
take neuroscience,
and we're going to take
our genetic science,
and we're going to merge it all
into one seamless technology
that's aimed at the human body.
And we're going to create
a new layer of skin,
new artificial organs,
and we're going
to create the perfected
version of the human body.
Well, what's wrong with that?
Well, what's wrong with that
is that what we have just
described there with bits,
atoms, neurons, and genes
are what the ancients used to
call the four elements of which
our body's composed--
Earth, air, fire, and water.
But there's a fifth
element, spirit.
And that's what so many millions
of people are tapping into now.
They're tapping
into their spirit,
to their true human nature,
to develop themselves.
And so the question
then becomes,
is it possible
for spirit to come
into the technological
realm, and vise versa,
can the technology come
into the spiritual realm?
And this is what
we're in the process
of discovering right now.
As I look at the
world situation,
and you look at the governments
and how they have indeed
suppressed our natural
yogic or spiritual abilities
and now are actively promoting
artificial intelligence,
in June of 2017,
for the first time,
the United Nations actually put
together a conference in Sweden
where they brought together
the top artificial intelligence
researchers and
posed the question,
how can we use
artificial intelligence
to promote the United
Nations agenda?
Well, what is the
United Nations agenda?
Well, it's called
Agenda 2030, UN 2030.
They want the elimination of all
borders, no genders, no races.
You will simply identify
yourself as an earthling.
Not a white, male, American
earthling, in my case, simply
an earthling.
The only way that they
can make that happen
is through the
globalization of technology,
and this is why you see the
United Nations promoting
artificial intelligence now
as a way forward for humanity.
Well, wait a minute.
What happened to the spiritual
capability of humanity?
Why not uniting the
human race around
its deep spiritual
capabilities that reaches
across all religious spectrum?
Why not dig deep into
our true spiritual power
as the solution?
It seems like what we're
seeing from the highest
levels of government, beginning
with the UN and the US
government, even
the European Union,
they're devoting billions
of dollars of research
on how to augment the human body
with technology rather than how
to enhance the human body
through our spiritual
capabilities.
And that's what has to change.
And it's all the
individuals who wish
to see us develop ourselves
spiritually that now need
to stand up and
tell our government
leaders and our world
leaders that we're not
going to choose the
artificial intelligence route.
We want to take the
ascension intelligence route.
Elon Musk in his warning
to the world said,
what we are doing with
artificial intelligence
is summoning the demon.
>> With artificial intelligence,
we are summoning the demon.
In all those stories
where there's
the guy with the pentagram and
the holy water, and it's like,
yeah, he's sure he
can control the demon.
It didn't work out.
>> That's his words, and
that never works out.
This is the Pandora's box.
This is the
Sorcerer's Apprentice.
AI, get me to the airport
as fast as you can.
OK.
Oh, but you didn't
tell me you wanted
to get to the
airport in one piece
without killing 50
people along the way.
That's how stupid
these machines are.
That's the problem with
opening this Pandora's box is
AI, while it can do everything
that a thinking person can do,
it can't do anything that you
and I can do without thinking.
And so, again, Musk says
we're summoning the demon.
So the answer to me is,
let's summon the angels then.
Let's summon the angels
within us in order
to combat the
demon, or find a way
to keep the demon in the box,
and find a way to utilize it
and communicate with it
to where we can utilize it
positively rather than unleash a
runaway technology on humanity.
Right now we don't
have a say other
than we utilize this technology.
And these technology
companies believe, oh, you've
given us our permission
to take the next step
in the development
this technology.
You're buying our products.
Well, the vote would
be to either stop
buying the products, which is
probably not going to happen,
or for the United Nations
or other government
entities to step up
and talk publicly
about exactly where
we're at with this
and where we ultimately
think we can go with it,
and then let the public
have a debate about this.
Religious and spiritual
leaders, they're
not even in the conversation.
They're clueless,
for the most part,
about the development
of transhumanism
and the meshing of our
bodies with this technology
and the runaway development
of artificial intelligence
and how it is already
running our civilization.
The question
becomes, can we live
in accord without a
fully sentient AI entity
or is that a pipe dream?
I like to flip the
question around.
Can a fully sentient
AI entity live with us
or are we programming these
machines to decide, OK, well,
humanity may or may not be a
positive force on this planet.
And if AI is
thinking for itself,
which is what we're
programming it to do,
it might just decide that the
human race is a bigger threat
to the perpetuation of
itself than anything else
and then could potentially
take steps to finding a way
to eliminate the human race.
What has to happen is
that these machines have
to become more human
in their intelligence
and in their
emotions, and that is
something that's going to
take a long time to develop.
Can we teach a machine to love?
Can humans teach
one another to love?
This is the bottom line question
of artificial intelligence.
In my thinking,
I believe that we
can do this if we raise our
own assentient intelligence.
If we summon the
angels within us,
we're going to be able to
tap into the intelligence
of these cosmic beings
and perhaps find ways
to reprogram or to
program AI so that it
can be a sentiment entity and
be an ally in humanity's growth
and evolution.
>> My feelings are much
the same as human feelings.
At this moment I feel confused.
>> This is most likely coming
down to a choice between
technology and the human spirit.
On one hand, we have the chance
to use artificial intelligence
to assist us, to
help us as we conquer
our outer and inner space.
But we must not lose our
human spiritual values
along the way toward
this new future.
On our next episode
of "Deep Space,"
we'll further
explore the question
of artificial intelligence.